SORTIS
A confidential prize savings protocol on the Zama Protocol
Implementation document
Zama Developer Program, Mainnet Season 4, Bounty Track
Submission deadline: 5 September 2026, 23:59 AOE
Target network: Ethereum Sepolia
Document version 1.0, drafted 11 August 2026

1. What we are building
Sortis is a no loss prize savings pool. You deposit a confidential token, your deposit sits in a shared pool earning yield, and at the end of each round the yield is handed to one depositor as a prize instead of being spread thinly across everyone. Nobody loses their principal. You can withdraw it at any time. The only thing at stake is the interest you would otherwise have earned.
That idea is not new. Britain has been running it since 1957 under the name Premium Bonds, with the winning numbers drawn by a machine called ERNIE that was built by the same engineers who broke codes at Bletchley Park. PoolTogether brought the mechanism onchain in 2019. The problem with the onchain version is that it gives up the one thing savers quietly care about: every deposit, every balance, every person's odds of winning and every payout sits in public view on a block explorer forever.
Sortis closes that gap. Balances, deposits and winnings are encrypted end to end using fully homomorphic encryption. The draw itself runs over ciphertext, so the contract selects a winner without ever learning who the participants are or how much they hold. Only the winner can decrypt their prize. The fairness of the draw stays publicly checkable by anyone, which is the part that usually gets sacrificed when people bolt privacy onto a lottery.
The name comes from the Latin sors, sortis: a lot, a share, a portion drawn by chance. It is the root of sortition, the practice of allocating something by drawing lots rather than by choice or by influence. That is precisely the mechanism, and it names the thing without naming the technology.
1.1 What the bounty actually requires
Everything below is scoped against the submission form rather than the blog announcement, because the form is where the binding requirements live.
Requirement
How Sortis satisfies it
Functioning dApp: contracts plus frontend
Hardhat workspace and a Next.js app in one monorepo, both public on GitHub
Working demo deployed on a website
Vercel deployment with a public landing page, a live pool on Sepolia and a one click faucet
Three minute video, real person only
Screen recording with live voice. No AI generated video or voice, which the form explicitly disqualifies
An X thread or article introducing the project
Thread tagging @zama with the #ZamaDeveloperProgram hashtag, published before the deadline
Deployed on Sepolia
All contracts on Sepolia, addresses published on the site and in the README
Production quality, beyond proof of concept
Full test suite, documented threat model, gas accounting, a real yield adapter interface and an audit ready README

One thing worth stating plainly at the top: the Zama team has confirmed on their community forum that reviewers open the deployed applications and try them. A judge will arrive with an empty Sepolia wallet and roughly two minutes of patience. Section 4 is built around that single fact.

2. Stack
Layer
Choice
Reasoning
Contracts
Solidity 0.8.27, Hardhat, fhevm-hardhat-template
Zama's own template. It ships the mock coprocessor so FHE logic can be unit tested locally without hitting a network
FHE library
@fhevm/solidity
euint64 arithmetic, encrypted comparison, FHE.select and onchain encrypted randomness
Token standard
ERC-7984 via OpenZeppelin confidential contracts
The protocol standard for confidential tokens. Using the audited implementation rather than a bespoke one
Frontend framework
Next.js 16 App Router, React 19, TypeScript
Already the working environment, so no ramp up cost
Styling
Tailwind CSS v4 with shadcn/ui
Component primitives without a design system to fight. Requires the current shadcn CLI, not the legacy one
Motion
framer-motion
Used sparingly, mainly for the draw sequence on the landing page
Icons
lucide-react
Consistent line weight, no licensing questions
Wallet layer
Reown AppKit over wagmi v2 and viem
Broad wallet coverage with one connect surface and a small integration footprint
Encryption client
Zama Relayer SDK
Browser side encryption of inputs and the EIP-712 user decryption flow
Data
viem log reads with TanStack Query
No indexer to run or pay for. Sepolia log volume is trivial
Keeper
Vercel Cron calling a route handler
Triggers rounds and steps the draw sweep on a schedule
Hosting
Vercel
Preview deployments per branch, and the judges get a stable production URL
2.1 Two integration traps, up front
The Relayer SDK is browser only and compiled to WebAssembly. Importing it at module scope anywhere the App Router can touch during server rendering will break the build. It has to live behind a client only dynamic import with ssr set to false, be initialised inside an effect, and every call that depends on it has to be gated behind a ready flag. Half a day should be budgeted for this and no more.
Reown AppKit needs ssr enabled on the wagmi config with cookie storage, otherwise the first paint shows a disconnected wallet and then snaps to connected, which looks broken on a judge's first impression.
2.2 Repository layout
sortis/
  packages/
    contracts/          Hardhat workspace
      contracts/
        SortisPool.sol
        SortisDraw.sol
        interfaces/IYieldSource.sol
        yield/MockYieldSource.sol
        yield/MorphoYieldSource.sol   (stub, mainnet path)
      test/
      deploy/
    web/                Next.js 16 application
      app/
      components/
      lib/fhevm/        SDK bootstrap, decryption helpers
      lib/contracts/    generated ABIs and addresses
  README.md

3. Architecture
There are three genuinely hard problems in this build, and everything else is ordinary application work. The first is selecting a winner weighted by encrypted balances without decrypting anything. The second is producing yield on a testnet that has none. The third is making the draw verifiable to an outside observer while keeping the participants private. This section deals with all three.
3.1 Contract set
Contract
Responsibility
SortisPool
Custody. Accepts confidential token deposits, holds encrypted per user balances, issues tickets, processes withdrawals, and routes idle funds to the yield source
SortisDraw
The draw engine. Snapshots the ticket set, requests encrypted randomness, sweeps the cumulative sums and credits the prize. Referred to as ERNIE in the interface and the event names
IYieldSource
A minimal interface: deposit, withdraw, accrued. Lets the yield backend be swapped without touching the pool
MockYieldSource
Sepolia only. Accrues a configurable rate against a pre funded reserve so draws have something to pay out
MorphoYieldSource
Mainnet path, written but not deployed. Targets the Steakhouse Confidential Prime USDC vault on Morpho
SortisFaucet
Mints test cUSDT to any address once per cooldown window. Exists purely for reviewers
3.2 The ticket model
A deposit does not just increase a balance. It appends a ticket to the current round's ticket list, holding the depositor's address and the encrypted amount deposited. Tickets are immutable once the round closes, which is what makes the draw arithmetic tractable.
Each ticket carries:
owner, a plain address
amount, an euint64 holding the encrypted deposit
cumulative, an euint64 holding the running sum of every ticket up to and including this one
active, an ebool that a withdrawal can flip to false
The cumulative field is computed at append time, so it costs one encrypted addition per deposit rather than a full recomputation at draw time. This is the single most important structural decision in the contract, because it turns an operation that would otherwise be quadratic into a linear one.
Eligibility follows the Premium Bonds convention: a ticket must exist before the round opens to take part in that round's draw. Deposits made mid round roll into the next one. This is easy to explain, it is what savers already expect from the real world instrument, and it removes an entire class of timing exploits.
3.3 Winner selection over ciphertext
The pool total is decrypted publicly. This sounds like a concession but it is not one. Total value locked is public in every savings product that has ever existed, PoolTogether included, and users actively want to see it. What stays encrypted is the composition of that total, which is the part that identifies people.
The selection runs as follows.
The round closes. The ticket list is frozen and its length is emitted in an event.
The contract requests public decryption of the encrypted grand total. The oracle returns a plaintext uint64 in a callback.
The contract draws r using onchain encrypted randomness, then reduces it modulo the now plaintext total. Reduction by a plaintext divisor is supported; reduction by an encrypted one is not, which is the reason step two exists at all.
The sweep walks the ticket list. For each ticket i the contract computes an encrypted boolean: is the previous cumulative less than or equal to r, and is r strictly less than this ticket's cumulative. Exactly one ticket can satisfy both.
For every ticket, winner or not, the contract adds FHE.select(isWinner, prize, 0) to that owner's encrypted claimable balance.
ebool lower  = FHE.le(prevCumulative, r);
ebool upper  = FHE.lt(r, ticket.cumulative);
ebool hit    = FHE.and(FHE.and(lower, upper), ticket.active);
euint64 add  = FHE.select(hit, prizeAmount, FHE.asEuint64(0));
claimable[ticket.owner] = FHE.add(claimable[ticket.owner], add);
Step five is doing quiet but essential work. Every participant's storage slot is written on every draw, including the losers, who receive an encrypted zero. If only the winner's slot were touched, the event log and the state diff would identify the winner immediately and the encryption would be decorative. Uniform writes are the price of actually being private, and they are the reason the sweep is linear in participant count rather than constant.
Cost and batching
Encrypted operations are expensive. Roughly five FHE operations per ticket, multiplied across a few hundred tickets, will not fit in a single block. The sweep is therefore resumable: SortisDraw keeps a cursor, and the keeper calls stepDraw with a batch size until the cursor reaches the end. Each batch emits progress, the frontend shows a progress bar during the draw, and the round cannot be settled until the cursor completes. Making this visible in the interface turns a technical limitation into the most interesting thing on the screen.
The voided ticket case
If somebody withdraws mid round, their ticket is marked inactive but the cumulative sums above it are not rebuilt, because rebuilding is linear and would need to happen on every withdrawal. This leaves a gap: the random number can land inside a voided range. When it does, no ticket satisfies the condition, no prize is credited, and the prize rolls into the next round. Premium Bonds and most real world lotteries already work this way, so it needs no apology in the interface, only a clear label.
3.4 Making the draw verifiable
This is where reviewers will push hardest, because it is where privacy projects usually cheat. The claim is that the draw is fair and checkable without anyone learning who took part.
The ticket set is frozen and its length published before randomness is requested, so nobody can be added or removed after the fact
Randomness is generated onchain by the protocol rather than supplied by an operator, so the deployer has no more influence over the outcome than any user does
The random value is publicly decrypted after settlement. Combined with the published total, anyone can confirm the value fell inside the valid range
The contract publicly decrypts a winner count as an invariant. It must equal one, or zero in the rolled over case. Any other value halts settlement
The full sequence of handles, the total, the random value and the settled prize are emitted as events and rendered on a public verification page, one per draw
What an observer cannot reconstruct is who held which ticket or how large it was. They can confirm the machine was honest without being able to see inside it, which is the entire proposition.
3.5 Yield on a network that has none
Sepolia has no real yield, and pretending otherwise would be the fastest way to lose credibility with this particular set of reviewers. The design treats the yield source as a pluggable dependency and is explicit in the interface about which one is running.
On Sepolia, MockYieldSource holds a pre funded reserve of test tokens and accrues against it at a configurable rate, with the rate turned up deliberately high so a demo round produces a visible prize in minutes rather than months. The interface labels this as simulated testnet yield wherever a prize figure appears. No ambiguity, no small print.
MorphoYieldSource is written against the same interface and points at the Steakhouse Confidential Prime USDC vault on Morpho, the confidential vault Zama shipped in June 2026. It is not deployed, and the README says so, but its presence demonstrates that the architecture has a real mainnet path rather than a mock nailed permanently to the core contract. That distinction is most of what separates a production demonstration from a proof of concept.

4. The demo, end to end
The judge journey is the product. A reviewer lands on the site cold, with no test tokens and no context, and forms an opinion within about ninety seconds. Every decision in this section is subordinate to getting them from arrival to watching a draw resolve in under three minutes.
Two pools run side by side. The main pool has a realistic round length. A demo pool runs five minute rounds continuously so that something is always about to happen. Whichever minute a reviewer arrives, there is a live countdown and a draw within reach.
4.1 Routes
Route
Purpose
/
Landing page. No wallet required. Explains the product and sells the idea
/app
The pool. Deposit, withdraw, current encrypted balance, ticket status
/app/draws
Round history, countdown to the next draw, live sweep progress
/app/prizes
Claim and decrypt winnings
/verify/[roundId]
Public verification of a single draw. No wallet required
/faucet
One click test tokens
/how-it-works
Technical explanation, contract addresses, links to the repository
4.2 The landing page
Seven sections in a fixed order. The page is monochrome by instruction and by taste: black text on white, one weight of rule, generous space, and tabular monospace figures for anything numeric. It will stand out precisely because every other submission will be a purple gradient.
Hero. One sentence explaining the product, and beneath it a live statistics strip showing total pooled, next draw countdown and participant count. Individual balances are shown as a masked ciphertext string in the same strip. The contrast between the public aggregate and the masked individual is the pitch, delivered visually before a single paragraph is read.
The problem. A real screenshot of an existing onchain prize pool with balances, odds and payouts fully legible, set against the Sortis equivalent. Copy is minimal because the image argues better than the sentence.
How it works. Three beats: the deposit encrypts, the pool earns, the draw runs over ciphertext and only the winner can read the result. Animate the ciphertext rather than asserting that encryption is happening.
The draw, live. Countdown, the most recent settled round, and its transaction hash linked to Etherscan. This is the trust anchor and the section that will be examined most closely.
The no loss guarantee. Principal withdrawable at any time, the prize is yield only, and the withdrawal path is shown rather than described.
Under the hood. Zama Protocol, ERC-7984, deployed addresses, repository link, test coverage figure. This section signals production readiness instead of claiming it.
Frequently asked questions and footer.
4.3 Core user flows
Deposit
User connects through Reown AppKit. The app checks the network and offers to switch to Sepolia.
User enters an amount. The Relayer SDK encrypts it in the browser and produces an input proof.
User approves the confidential token allowance, then calls deposit with the ciphertext and proof.
The pool appends a ticket, extends the cumulative sum by one encrypted addition, and grants the user decryption rights over their own balance.
The interface shows the deposit as pending for the current round, with plain language about when it becomes eligible.
Reading your own balance
Balances render as masked ciphertext by default with a reveal control. Revealing triggers the EIP-712 user decryption flow: the user signs once, the app holds the resulting keypair in memory for the session, and subsequent reveals need no further signature. The keypair is deliberately not persisted to local storage. Making the reveal an explicit, visible act is also a demonstration, because it shows the reviewer that the encryption is load bearing rather than cosmetic.
The draw
The keeper closes the round and requests public decryption of the total.
The oracle callback lands and the contract draws and reduces the random value.
The keeper calls stepDraw in batches. The interface shows a live progress indicator with the ticket cursor advancing.
Settlement emits the result. The winner count invariant is checked.
Everybody's claimable balance changes on chain and nobody's reveals anything. The winner finds out by opening the prizes page and decrypting.
The moment of finding out is the emotional core of the product and deserves real attention in the interface. A prize savings account that tells you flatly whether you won has thrown away the only pleasure the instrument offers.
Withdrawal
Available at any time, including mid round. The encrypted balance is decremented, the ticket is marked inactive, and the confidential tokens are transferred back. The interface states clearly that withdrawing forfeits that ticket's entry in the round in progress.

5. Frontend architecture
One provider tree, three concerns kept separate: wallet state from wagmi, encryption state from the Relayer SDK, and server state from TanStack Query. Nothing else holds global state.
<WagmiProvider config={config}>          // Reown AppKit, ssr true, cookie storage
  <QueryClientProvider>
    <FhevmProvider>                      // client only, dynamic import, ssr false
      <App />
    </FhevmProvider>
  </QueryClientProvider>
</WagmiProvider>
FhevmProvider exposes an instance and a ready flag. Every component that encrypts or decrypts consumes both, and renders a skeleton until ready is true. Contract reads that do not involve ciphertext go through ordinary wagmi hooks and do not wait on the SDK, so the page is useful before the WebAssembly module finishes loading.
Round history, draw results and verification data come from event logs read with viem, cached by TanStack Query and revalidated on a short interval. There is no database and no indexer. Sepolia log volume for a single application does not justify either, and every piece of infrastructure added is another thing that can be down when a reviewer visits.
The keeper is a Vercel Cron job hitting a route handler that holds a hot key funded with Sepolia ETH. This is stated openly in the README as a testnet convenience, along with the note that a production deployment would move round management to a permissionless keeper with an incentive, since anyone should be able to advance the draw.
6. Testing
Unit tests against the Hardhat mock coprocessor for every encrypted path, including the cumulative sum invariant
A property test that a random value drawn across the full range selects exactly one active ticket, run over many seeded rounds
An explicit test that the voided ticket case produces a rollover rather than a silent failure or a double credit
A test asserting that losers' storage slots are written, since a regression there would silently destroy the privacy guarantee
Gas measurement per ticket for the sweep, published in the README so the batching limits are documented rather than discovered
An integration test on Sepolia covering deposit, round close, draw, claim and withdraw as one sequence
Coverage is reported in the README with a real number. Reviewers looking for production quality read the test directory before they read the marketing copy.
7. Schedule
Twenty five days from drafting to deadline. The plan front loads the contracts because the draw mathematics is the only part with genuine unknowns, and leaves the final four days entirely for the deliverables that are not code.
Window
Work
11 to 17 August
Contracts. Pool, ticket model, draw sweep, mock yield source, full unit test suite against the mock coprocessor
18 to 24 August
Application shell. Wallet connection, SDK bootstrap, deposit, withdraw, balance reveal, faucet. First Sepolia deployment
25 to 31 August
Draw page with live sweep progress, verification page, prize claim, keeper cron, landing page build
1 to 4 September
Video recording, X thread, README and documentation, code freeze, deployment hardening, buffer for the inevitable
5 September
Submit, with hours to spare rather than minutes

The buffer is not optional. Something in the encrypted decryption callback path will behave differently on Sepolia than it did against the mock, and that discovery should not happen on the fourth of September.
8. Risks
Risk
Response
Sweep gas exceeds what a batch can carry
Cursor based batching is in the design from the start. Batch size is a settable parameter, not a constant
Public decryption callback latency stalls a round
Rounds settle asynchronously by design. The interface shows an awaiting oracle state instead of appearing frozen
Reviewer arrives when nothing is happening
The five minute demo pool runs continuously, and the faucet is reachable from the landing page
Relayer SDK and App Router integration consumes days
Resolved in week one against a throwaway page before any real interface work begins
Simulated yield reads as dishonest
Labelled as simulated everywhere it appears, with the real Morpho adapter written against the same interface
Judging is subjective and has drawn public disagreement before
Compete on the things that are not subjective: working live link, real tests, documented gas, honest limitations
9. Open questions
Whether to support multiple concurrent pools of different denominations, or ship one pool well. Current inclination is one pool, done properly
Whether prizes should be a single winner or a tiered set. Tiers multiply the sweep cost by the number of tiers, so a single prize is the default unless the cost proves lower than expected
Whether to publish the winner's address after settlement as an opt in. It makes the product more social but weakens the privacy claim, so it stays off unless there is time to do it as a genuine user choice
Whether round length should be governed onchain or fixed at deployment. Fixed is simpler and nothing in the bounty rewards governance

